hi
welcome to another episode of b2b
marketing and more yay
it's a summer time is it very hard where
you live now oh it is super hot in
raleigh north carolina today i actually
have a special guest
stacy dan heiser
is the founder of a cmo of shake
marketing group and also a host for soar
marketing society which is a community
on a mighty network so if you are
interested in joining check that out she
has worked with many companies at the
same time being in the cmo positions
now she is a mentor and also create many
marketing training programs for b2b
marketers so stacy welcome hi i'm so
happy to be here thanks for having me
yay
so i have a couple questions for you
i know that in your program you are
talking about the skill sets that's
needed for b2b marketers i work with
many b2b marketers and me included for a
long period of time we tend to focus on
hard skill sets like oh search engine
marketing email marketing even marketing
yet soft skill sets are so important so
what is the number one soft skills from
your perspective that marketers should
possess
from a skill perspective absolutely i
would say
marketers are expected to be amazing
communicators and very high creativity
in fact creativity happens to be i think
the number one in demand skill year
after year
and so
marketers that are only focusing on the
hard skills aren't necessarily taking
the time to become creative which is
really what the business needs marketers
to be
before you answer the question you
mentioned about competencies and from my
perspective the competencies and skill
sets are very similar do you actually
have a different definitions for that we
like to talk about skills as what you
need to do to be successful in your job
so you know if you're a social media
manager then you obviously need to know
how to use social media
you need to know about content creation
right you might need to know about how
to create ads that's kind of what you
need to do
competencies on the other hand are more
about the behaviors and how you do your
job
so how do you show up as a social media
manager it's the things that aren't
often talked about and you you might not
necessarily see them in a job
description
as to what it will take to be a
successful person in that role
so from that perspective it's more or
less how you behave and like you said
and it's would you say a little bit more
kind of like a soft side of marketer or
a little bit more
have a certain level emotional
intelligence
i mean when you are talking about it the
only thing i can think of is like a
softer skill set maybe what we would
traditionally call a softer skill set
but it's also leadership yeah
it's what somebody is looking for to
promote if you have two marketers
and and they're both really great at seo
that's the skill
which one do you promote
if they have equal skill sets sort of in
that area you end up promoting the one
that is showing
leadership capabilities and competencies
beyond just
the skills that they need to be
successful in the job
what are some of the best way to
actually cultivate or even learn the
competencies that you are talking about
all the softer skill sets
for example the leadership it cannot be
learned or is that such an innate
capability that you were born with well
i want to take a step back maybe and
introduce you to the framework because
we did a bunch of research on well what
are these competencies that today's
modern marketers should have
to be successful in their role and so it
all started a couple of years ago when
we did research we started noticing a
trend that
there if you looked at the websites and
twitter feeds and linkedin feeds of of
companies that are operating in a
similar industry they all started to
sound the same
see of saying this is what we called it
that everybody was pretty much copying
and pasting each other
and so we wanted to know why was this
happening and
you could go into this is i think where
the creativity piece evolves from right
because companies want to stand out they
want to feel like they're doing
something different or bringing
something different to the world
but we were really interested in why
this is happening from a marketing
perspective and what we found is that
it's not because marketers didn't know
what to do
it's because there was a skill set gap
or competency gap happening within the
marketing function so people were
getting into these roles
they had high demands to get something
out there fast well what's the fastest
way to do it you go and you look at what
your competitors are doing you scrape
their story from their website and then
you put it onto your own changing some
of the words and making it sound
slightly different
what emerged from that research was a
set of competencies that we called the
value framework because it's an acronym
that spells value
and
we
found that there were five major
competencies that modern marketers
should be really focused on and
developing so what are these fives if
you can summarize it so the first one is
visionary v for visionary which is the
ability to look ahead to use your
imagination to have your pulse connected
to what's happening in the market and
not only your industry but your
customers industry so that you can see
ahead and build strategies the second
one is a for activator which is the
ability not only to get things done
which marketers traditionally rate
themselves very high on
but also the ability to collaborate and
get buy-in and say no to ideas that may
not
work for the business
the third one is l for learner which is
not only just staying in touch with your
own career path and the upskilling and
reskilling required to just be a
marketer but also
what are you doing to learn about your
competitors your market your customers
and even your business and your company
products and your company priorities
the fourth one was you for usefulness
and this is really the ability to
connect the dots from on one side of the
bridge what the customer cares about and
values to the other side of the bridge
which is what your company sells
and the bridge itself being you know a
path of usefulness how are you leading
your customers kind of over that bridge
and you really can't be
useful to customers if you don't
understand sort of both sides of that
equation
and then finally the e is for evaluator
which is the data analytics side and the
ability to objectively look at
your marketing activity look at what's
happening
and to be able to analyze it and make
decisions based on that and this one
requires a little bit of political
savviness as well because as we know as
marketers there's a lot of opinions that
are being thrown around internally and
projects that come up from ceo or the
head of product and so this is really
being able to analyze the data and make
sense of it so that you can use it to
make decisions basically you are talking
about there is
five competencies that needs to be
possessed or you need to own some of it
to some extent
what you need to be able to create a
vision and you need to be able to
activate which is when you have a plane
ready you need to be able to execute and
the other one which is i agree 100 which
is continuous learning you know because
the new technology is coming
into a different aspect of the marketing
you need to be able to continue to learn
then usefulness and i think from your
perspective is
it's not just be useful but also be able
to understand it's a value add to your
organization
and the last one is evaluator which is
you need to be able to actually look at
analytics and also
understand that different
business units or different partners
within organization might have a
different request
and you may not
be able to satisfy all of them and you
need to look into
the data to determine and also
prioritize in terms of how you want to
do your marketing campaigns at the same
time please everybody
yes yeah exactly budgeting is a big one
for that being able to allocate budgets
and how do you do that with that being
said those are kind of like i would say
a lot of competencies or the skill set
that people need to possess and it's a
journey it's a multi-years type of
effort
obviously you have written a book talk
about it
in terms of how they can do is that you
know for these five different say
competencies is it one more important
than the others or is this any way to
learn like kind of like multiple
competencies at once the book is called
standout marketing and we are just in
the process of launching a
self-assessment tool so that somebody
could go on and and figure out where do
they have the biggest gaps across five
i've done the polls for for other
audiences and
typically the one that seems to be rated
the lowest as of now kind of trending
amongst marketers what do you think it
is
vision
yeah it's a
written visionary
evaluating that's the the is either
number one or number five that's how i
would i would see it but yes yeah
if you think back to the few years
there's been this push for data-driven
marketing data-driven marketing
data-driven marketing so i think you're
starting to see more people sort of
comfortable
in that role of thinking ahead about
what data do i need to collect that
makes a lot of sense i like that yep
but what i think the gap it is around
sort of this visionary piece and this is
really you know if you look at the cmo
tenure and the turnover in the marketing
position
it's and the frustration with the ceos
it's that marketers aren't really tapped
into business priorities and able to
connect to
suggesting marketing activity that
aligns to the business and so
you know this requires a lot of
strategic thinking and time to give your
you know permission to give yourself
time to think strategically
versus what i think a lot of companies
tend to do is yeah yeah yeah i know that
there's a bunch of steps and foundation
that we have to build but let's just go
execute and let's put something out
there and let's see how it does and
you know
what ends up happening with that kind of
approach is that
sure you get results but you're kind of
sporadic about collecting that
information versus being intentful and
purposeful about where you want to focus
so to answer your question we have a
self self-assessment tool that we're
building that will help somebody
identify those the second piece of that
like which one is most important really
depends on the organization i like that
answer you know there's different stages
of of companies there's different sizes
of marketing teams and and i would take
a holistic approach to it when i work
with organizations kind of looking at
the skill sets on the team
you know if you have a a strong team of
activators and you have nobody doing the
evaluation and nobody doing the
visionary piece well then that's the gap
and that's what you should be focused on
is filling that gap
whether you're upskilling somebody or or
potentially bringing on a new hire in
that area that's kind of how the
prioritization would
would work and so these can all be
learned i mean it can so the book
actually goes into
each chapter has an explanation of what
the competency is there's some some
exercises and self-assessment that you
can do to figure out how you would score
yourself and then there's suggestions
and ways to get better for each of those
areas as well
so stacy i love your answer and i want
to do a quick summary actually for my
audience very quickly
granted i asked a very specific question
i said hey these are the five skill sets
which one should we go first and stacy
basically said it determined on your gap
and this assessment that you can do and
then you can determine
with your individual assessment and
where maybe you felt a little short or
maybe the area you have the biggest
strength from my perspective there are
two ways to work on this you can work on
to improve you know the areas that you
need improvement or you can you know
even continue to work on your strengths
and make your strengths shine but doing
assessment i think is very very
important so your answer is wonderful
doing assessment and actually using your
assessment to determine the gap and what
you want to do next the second thing you
mentioned i really really love your
answer is when i ask you i say okay so
now you have a gap why should you go
about you know fixing it and you say
that depends on the organization i 100
agree with that
can i mean that's a perfect answer a lot
of time marketers are looking for black
and white yes or no answer
but
but marketing can be so complicated
that's a lot of time is situational
driven right each company does marketing
differently and also the organizational
structure the budget structure or even
the management styles they are very very
different so looking at the maturity and
also your organizational structure is
the right thing to do to determine what
you should do in terms of also grow your
competency
fantastic so with that being said i
actually have a couple more questions
the next one is
obviously
people will go through and do their
assessments and they will look at the
organizational structure and you
mentioned about strategic thinking i was
a cpa and i was incredibly operations
driven and strategic thinking was never
my forte ever i'm always incredibly
focused on how
right it's operations it's tactics and
somebody will create a plan and i will
do the execution
and the strategic thinking was very hard
for me when i took on
kind of like a strategic type of role to
create a global marketing plan for an
enterprise i remember i struggled
tremendously the first two years
i have colleagues like came to me and
said this is a bunch of tactics it's not
strict it's not strategic enough and i
was like what does that even mean to be
strategic and took me a long time to
actually understand that you brought a
very good point in terms of for
marketers to understand the business
imperative and also the business goals
of a company that's how i start
when i started thinking strategically is
understand
the business goal the revenue goal what
are the sales people trying to do what
are the some of the key things we want
to accomplish and then understand they
internalize it then take that
and try to incorporate it as a part of
my marketing strategy that's how i see
as a strategic thinking what is your
thought on that can you provide
additional
insight yes
when i had a team of marketers i spent
14 years in corporate marketing working
for
five different fortune 500 companies oh
we can talk about that because both of
us are in the corporate world for a long
time for a long time yes a lot of
stories about the marketing planning
process but what i have found and this
is still happening pretty prevalently is
that you know depending on the marketer
and how strategic they are a lot of
people start with how
here's what i need you to do i need you
to go build a website okay how are we
going to do it i need email marketing
we need to do events
we need to do an event okay great how do
we get started and let's go build out
the tactics but it's stopping yourself
before you jump to that level and asking
the question why
why are we doing this what do we
seriously want to achieve
and how do we know
if we've achieved it what does success
look like for this program so you know i
think a lot of companies especially you
know back in my day in corporate we did
a lot of events
because we had always done events and
because well of course we're going to
show up at this trade show because
that's just what you do
and the sales has been asking for it and
because sales want the events to happen
it's tr show so and they can get leads
and therefore we do it yeah yes
so it's the marketer you know starting
to think strategically is stopping and
saying why why do we want to do this
what are you trying to achieve and
you'll find this is really interesting
is it seems like a lot of people are
making assumptions that these these
answers are understood but when you
actually pause and ask that question to
the person making the request
half the time they don't even know
they'll stop and they'll say oh that's a
really good question what are we trying
to achieve with this how will we measure
the success of this
and so it really forces people to sort
of think through
the requests that they're making and
maybe
events are not the answer maybe there's
a different way to come up with the
outcome that people are looking for
rather than spinning up a whole bunch of
work that's going to take you know six
months to come to fruition so
that would be kind of number one is to
just get in the mindset of asking that
question why asking why
the second thing that i think helps to
start thinking more strategically
especially as a marketer
is what i would call the customer
focused mindset
and i think this is missing in a lot of
organizations that are are very inward
driven right they sit in a group
around of with sales people and product
people and executives
and
they all speculate about what the
customer may want and the reality is
marketing should be owning customer
research and marketing should have their
pulse on what the customer needs or
wants or values or expects
and
you know unless you're in an
organization that's budgeting for
customer research which i have found
most b2b organizations are not
then your avenue for getting
input from customers is either you need
to build your own relationship with
customers and ask these questions
directly as a marketer
or travel along with the sales team
right and build the respect and
relationship with the sales team so they
start inviting you along to have these
conversations with directly with their
customers
and so this will help you be a more
strategic thinker because you'll have
another data point which is here's what
my company wants to do i have their
goals and i understand what we're trying
to achieve but
what do my customers want and how do i
like i said earlier kind of bridge the
gap between the two and so
for you know forcing yourself to always
be thinking about the customer and is is
this really adding value to their world
how is this going to help us how does
this help the customer
that's definitely a piece that helps you
think more strategically there may be an
unpopular opinion about how much time to
spend researching your competitors
but reality is that we have ended up in
this sea of sameness because marketers
have not focused on what the competition
is doing
so said in another way
again going back to being customer
focused
we know that customers are looking at 10
or 15 pieces of content
they're looking at multiple vendors
they're not just looking at one and so
putting yourself in the shoes of the
customer
would then help you as a marketer see
that is what you're creating
contributing to the noise or is it truly
differentiated and helpful and
educational and and really progressing
the customer's journey along a little
bit further i advise
for marketers to spend time doing that
competitor research because that helps
them ultimately create something more
useful i would like to add additional
style to that i 100 agree with you
competitive analysis is very very
important i myself included when i was a
corporate marketer i tend to be inward
looking i did not spend a lot of time
doing a competitive analysis i count on
someone else to do it so i can read a
report but i do agree with you if you
want to have a point of view if you will
you need to talk to a customers you also
need to understand the competitors well
and i 100 agree with you in terms of
marketers like us in addition to do our
job which is we have a lot of jobs we
have to do and tactics and tactics and
deliverables but also understanding the
competitors is very critical which is
add to in terms of connecting different
dots and that's one thought that you
should connect
and to contribute in terms of the
thinking strategically it's not just
understanding how your customers buy and
the buying process that and the decision
making process they go through but it's
also about understanding the sales
process
exactly the topic i loved so when i
switched over to b2b
i was pretty surprised at how one little
my budget was and two that marketing
marketing didn't have very big influence
in the company it was the sales team
that that really owned a lot of that
influence
and so i i realized kind of early very
early on that i needed to build a
relationship with my sales team if i was
going to be successful in in my role as
a marketer
so true so true there was product
training that the sales team had to go
through and then there was sales
methodology or process training and so
i asked to attend both of those and i
remember when i showed up to the sales
methodology training
the trainer said
why is there a marketer in here
and i said what do you mean he's like i
can't remember the last time we had a
marketer in the sales training
and it was true this all the sellers are
looking at me like why are you here
and
and i said
we all want the same thing we're both
trying to get customers if i understand
how you guys are doing your job and then
i can help you and figure out where i
can fit in
you can do a better job supporting them
yes yes and not only just supporting
them but also the customers and like i
want to know
each of the touch points the customers
need to help them make that decision so
we started working together once once
they knew that i understood the sales
process and i read sales books and and
then from that point on i i attended
sales methodology training at every
company i went to
because i was really interested and i
wanted the sales team to um
to develop a really good working
relationship and speak the same language
so that we knew
it wasn't marketing versus sales it was
marketing and sales and how can we work
together so that's another piece that i
would add for marketers to think more
strategically is is
really understand the sales process
okay so for folks who are listening and
that was coming directly from stacy we i
did not even prep her to say that and
that was also one of the major reasons
that i wrote my second book effective
sales enablement and that whole book is
really about how
marketers especially b2b marketers can
do to better support sales in addition
to your point understand customers
yes that's awesome
so after they listen to say this show or
this podcast and that's assumed they
also did the gap analysis they
understand what they need what are one
or two like very easy quick
actionable suggestions that you have so
that they can continue to hone in
these five competencies on a regular
basis what a couple of things they can
do either on a daily basis or
that's something they can read or
something they can practice
any specific suggestion on that
one thing in our research for the book
and we how we came up with the five
competencies is that we we interviewed
business and marketing and sales leaders
across the us and the uk
so this is not just coming from a
marketing standpoint this was really
coming from business leaders who who
were leading large
global organizations
and
the one thing that was very interesting
to me was about going back to the
learning bit which is
a lot of companies had budgets for their
marketing teams to use for learning
to attend conferences to take classes
yes
yes and the the one thing that we heard
as a barrier was
my my marketing team is not using it
so we have a budget nobody comes to me
and asks me to use it or i think there's
maybe one person on our team whoever
finds something and asks to attend so
that was interesting and i started to
look into why and it it went back to
um these long lists of things to do
that marketers are notorious for having
and so learning was de-prioritized you
know way way down on the list and so
i would say you know prioritize yourself
nobody especially if you're working in
an in-house agency or a corporate job is
going to come and tell you what you need
to go learn it's really up to you and
this is like your own personal growth
and your own development that you get to
own
so make that a priority and if it's 30
minutes a day spend reading about your
industry spend reading about something
that your customers doing
learning more about your product i mean
there's so much to learn
okay we have a whole separate other
episode and there's a whole chapter in
the book that tells you go specifically
kind of breaking down what what you need
to learn but that would be one piece of
advice that i think everybody has full
ownership of is blocking off 30 minutes
a day to learn and this was the thing
well i don't have the time well i
guarantee that there's probably 30
minutes in your day that you're spending
scrolling mindlessly on social media or
sitting in a meeting that you might that
you don't need to be in or when you are
driving you can always turn on the
podcast any kind of marketing related
podcast or any kind of like know-how
type of podcast
two would just be you know if you don't
already have a really good relationship
with your sales team
go sit with a seller so true so true and
really you can even ask them like what's
one piece of advice that you wish
marketing knew or what's one sales book
that you think every marketer should
read
so that you're starting to build that
knowledge base and and build a better
relationship with the sales team because
having been now on both sides now that i
that i have my own company i now get to
be the seller
and
it just makes everything click when you
get to do both right marketing and sells
and you need both it's not one or the
other so spend some time learn something
new every day and also build a better
relationship or start you know having
the relationship with your sales team
i do actually have a lot of fun
questions so what netflix are you binge
watching right now bridgerton i was like
a big huge fan of frasertin
yeah yeah after you do this like b2b
marketing strategy and then you're
writing your book and coming with your
framework you were like i need something
mindless i want to do something fun
exactly exactly i want your present
understand i get it
stacy thank you so much for coming to my
show can you also tell us to remind us
one more time in terms of where we can
find your book and there's also where
our people should go in terms of finding
more about you so first i'd love to
connect on linkedin stacy danhizer is my
name so um we'll share a link to that
but you can look me up on linkedin
and then my company website is shake
s-h-a-k-e-m
as in marketing
ktg.com
and there there you'll find my books i
have a um a new playbook program that
i'm rolling out the assessments kind of
all of all of our tools and resources
are on that website so thank you so much
for coming to my show stacy
yes thank you for having me it was
awesome chatting about one of my
favorite topics b2b marketing
yay
take care everyone bye
[Music]
never miss an episode of b2b marketing
and more by following us here on youtube
and leave a comment while you're at it
you can also find episodes wherever you
get your podcasts
[Music]